README.rst, before:

pymsis: A python wrapper of the NRLMSIS model
=============================================

Note that the MSIS2 code is not available for commercial use without
contacting NRL. See the `MSIS2 license file <MSIS2_LICENSE>`__ for
explicit details. We do not repackage any of the MSIS source code in
this repository for that reason. However, we do provide utilities to
easily download and extract the original source code. By using that code
you agree to their terms and conditions.

NRL Mass Spectrometer, Incoherent Scatter Radar Extended Model (MSIS)
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The `MSIS
model <https://www.nrl.navy.mil/ssd/branches/7630/modeling-upper-atmosphere>`__
is developed by the Naval Research Laboratory.

References
----------

Please acknowledge the University of Colorado Space Weather Technology,
Research and Education Center (SWx TREC) and cite the original papers if
you make use of this model in a publication.

    Emmert, J. T., Drob, D. P., Picone, J. M., Siskind, D. E., Jones,
    M., Mlynczak, M. G., et al. (2020). NRLMSIS 2.0: A whole‐atmosphere
    empirical model of temperature and neutral species densities. Earth
    and Space Science, 7, e2020EA001321.
    https://doi.org/10.1029/2020EA001321

The Original NRLMSISE-00 paper

    Picone, J. M., Hedin, A. E., Drob, D. P., and Aikin, A. C.,
    NRLMSISE‐00 empirical model of the atmosphere: Statistical
    comparisons and scientific issues, J. Geophys. Res., 107( A12),
    1468,
    `doi:10.1029/2002JA009430 <https://doi.org/10.1029/2002JA009430>`__,
    2002.

Installation
------------

The easiest way to install pymsis is to install from PyPI.

.. code:: bash

    pip install pymsis

For the most up-to-date pymsis, you can install directly from the git repository

.. code:: bash

    pip install git+https://github.com/SWxTREC/pymsis.git

or to work on it locally, you can clone the repository and use an
editable install

.. code:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/SWxTREC/pymsis.git
    cd pymsis
    pip install -e .

Remote installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The installation is dependent on access to the NRL source code. If the
download fails, of you have no internet access you can manually install
the Fortran source code as follows.

1. **Download the source code**

    The source code is hosted on the NRL's website:
    https://map.nrl.navy.mil/map/pub/nrl/NRLMSIS/NRLMSIS2.0/ Download the
    ``NRLMSIS2.0.tar.gz`` file to your local system.

2. **Extract the source files**

    The tar file needs to be extracted to a new ``msis2`` directory in
    the base of the pymsis package.

    .. code:: bash

        mkdir msis2
        tar -xvzf NRLMSIS2.0.tar.gz -C msis2/

3. **Install the Python package**

    .. code:: bash

        pip install .

Commit message:

DOC: Update the main README with badges and links
Include badges and links to the documentation in the base readme.

README.rst, after:

.. image:: https://swxtrec.github.io/pymsis/_static/pymsis-logo.png

pymsis: A python wrapper of the NRLMSIS model
=============================================

|PyPi|_ |Downloads|_ |GitHubActions|_

.. |PyPi| image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/pymsis.svg
.. _PyPi: https://badge.fury.io/py/pymsis

.. |Downloads| image:: https://pepy.tech/badge/pymsis/month
.. _Downloads: https://pepy.tech/project/pymsis

.. |GitHubActions| image:: https://github.com/SWxTREC/pymsis/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg
.. _GitHubActions: https://github.com/SWxTREC/pymsis/actions?query=workflow%3Apymsis

Pymsis is meant to be a minimal and fast Python wrapper of the NRLMSIS models.
Documentation to get started quickly can be found on the `home page <https://swxtrec.github.io/pymsis/>`_.
It includes some `examples <https://swxtrec.github.io/pymsis/examples/index.html>`_ that
demonstrate how to access and plot the data.

NRL Mass Spectrometer, Incoherent Scatter Radar Extended Model (MSIS)
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The `MSIS
model <https://www.nrl.navy.mil/ssd/branches/7630/modeling-upper-atmosphere>`__
is developed by the Naval Research Laboratory.

Note that the MSIS2 code is not available for commercial use without
contacting NRL. See the `MSIS2 license file <MSIS2_LICENSE>`__ for
explicit details. We do not repackage any of the MSIS source code in
this repository for that reason. However, we do provide utilities to
easily download and extract the original source code. By using that code
you agree to their terms and conditions.

References
----------

Please acknowledge the University of Colorado Space Weather Technology,
Research and Education Center (SWx TREC) and cite the original papers if
you make use of this model in a publication.

    Emmert, J. T., Drob, D. P., Picone, J. M., Siskind, D. E., Jones,
    M., Mlynczak, M. G., et al. (2020). NRLMSIS 2.0: A whole‐atmosphere
    empirical model of temperature and neutral species densities. Earth
    and Space Science, 7, e2020EA001321.
    https://doi.org/10.1029/2020EA001321

The Original NRLMSISE-00 paper

    Picone, J. M., Hedin, A. E., Drob, D. P., and Aikin, A. C.,
    NRLMSISE‐00 empirical model of the atmosphere: Statistical
    comparisons and scientific issues, J. Geophys. Res., 107( A12),
    1468,
    `doi:10.1029/2002JA009430 <https://doi.org/10.1029/2002JA009430>`__,
    2002.

Installation
------------

The easiest way to install pymsis is to install from PyPI.

.. code:: bash

    pip install pymsis

For the most up-to-date pymsis, you can install directly from the git repository

.. code:: bash

    pip install git+https://github.com/SWxTREC/pymsis.git

or to work on it locally, you can clone the repository and use an
editable install

.. code:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/SWxTREC/pymsis.git
    cd pymsis
    pip install -e .

Remote installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The installation is dependent on access to the NRL source code. If the
download fails, of you have no internet access you can manually install
the Fortran source code as follows.

1. **Download the source code**

    The source code is hosted on the NRL's website:
    https://map.nrl.navy.mil/map/pub/nrl/NRLMSIS/NRLMSIS2.0/ Download the
    ``NRLMSIS2.0.tar.gz`` file to your local system.

2. **Extract the source files**

    The tar file needs to be extracted to a new ``msis2`` directory in
    the base of the pymsis package.

    .. code:: bash

        mkdir msis2
        tar -xvzf NRLMSIS2.0.tar.gz -C msis2/

3. **Install the Python package**

    .. code:: bash

        pip install .
